+++
title = "Dr. Abdalla Swikir"
draft = false

image = "/images/team/AbdallaSwikir.jpg"  # webpage/image/team/ ....

role_first_line = "Prof. at MBZUAI"        # Visible subtitle
role_second_line = "(former Postdoc @ TUM)"                       # Visible subtitle
role_group = ["Postdoc"]                    # One of: PhD, Postdoc, MSc, BSc, Staff, Visiting, Alumni, Collaborator
affiliation = ["TUM"]      # One of: MBZUAI, TUM, LUH

status = "alumni"                           # "active" or "alumni"

publications = [
    "YildirimFORSSMH25",                  # name of bib entry (must appear in webpage\bibliography.bib
    "AoWWSH25",
    "WuCWCZBSHK25",
    "MeloneKMSH25",
    "SoSAH25",
    "AgrawalKCBJHS25",
    "ChenZCWNSH25",
    "BiekerK0JSHK24",
    "ChenYNSH24",
    "SoALSH24",
    "AminzadehSHL24",
    "OssadnikRYFKSH24",
    "ChenNSHH24",
    "SchongerKCFSBH24",
    "SoMKSFAH24",
    "KuhnYFKSH24",
    "GrossRWHCFGSH24",
    "ChenYZNSH24",
    "RingwaldSCKJSH23",
    "FortunicYOSAH23",
    "RingwaldZSH23",
    "YildirimPHMSH23",
    "EckhoffKZSH23",
    "FortunicSAH22",
    "YildirimSGKJSSH22",
    "OssadnikYWSKAH22",
    "LahaFVSH21",
    "ChenSH21",
    "LahaVFQSJH21"
] 
+++

*(image credit: [LinkedIn](https://ae.linkedin.com/in/abdalla-swikir-30792266))*


## Biography
I am an Assistant Professor of Robotics at  Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence (MBZUAI), Abu Dhabi, UAE. 
I am also an IEEE senior member and the recipient of the 2023 IEEE CSS George S. Axelby Outstanding Paper and the 2023 IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters Best Paper Awards. 
In addition, I am a part of several IEEE Robotics and Automation Society. 
I am also in the advisory Board and the Steering Committee of the International Elite Summer School in Robotics and Entrepreneurship.    

Before joining MBZUAI, I was a Senior Scientist and Teaching Coordinator at the Munich Institute of Robotics and Machine Intelligence (MIRMI), where I led the Robot Learning research groups and coordinated and delivered various robotics and control courses. 
Furthermore, I led several high-profile EU projects with a focus varying from Robotic design to applying AI on large-scale robotic systems. 

My research interests lie at the intersection of artificial intelligence and robotics, where I focus on pioneering new strategies that harness AI's potential to enhance robotic control systems. 
I am particularly drawn to designing and analyzing innovative robotic systems that integrate AI-driven safe learning methodologies, empowering robots and autonomous systems to adapt seamlessly to their environments while upholding safety standards. 
My work involves compositional analysis of large-scale interconnected systems and using symbolic control and control barrier functions to ensure stability across infinite networks.

*(source: [Personal Webpage](https://sites.google.com/view/swikir/home))*



## Research Interests
- Robotics Systems and Mechatronics design
- Quantum robotics and control systems
- Safe learning in robotic control and autonomous systems
- Compositional analysis and synthesis of interconnected systems
- Symbolic Control
- Control barrier function
- Incremental stability
- Stability analysis of infinite networks

*(source: [RSI webpage](https://www.ce.cit.tum.de/en/rsi/team/swikir-abdalla/))*



## Contact
- [LinkedIn](https://ae.linkedin.com/in/abdalla-swikir-30792266)
- [Personal Webpage](https://sites.google.com/view/swikir/home)
- [MBZUAI](https://mbzuai.ac.ae/study/faculty/abdalla-swikir/)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=SRX1SmMAAAAJ)
- [ORCID](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4154-7446)



## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated! Use publications = [] -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->