+++
title = "Dr. Abdeldjallil Naceri"
draft = true

image = "/images/team/AbdeldjallilNaceri.jpg"  # webpage/image/team/ ....

role_first_line = "Postdoc @ MBZUAI"  # Visible subtitle
role_second_line = "(Former Senior Scientist @ TUM"                       # Visible subtitle
role_group = ["Postdoc"]                    # One of: PhD, Postdoc, MSc, BSc, Staff, Visiting, Alumni, Collaborator
affiliation = ["MBZUAI"]                       # One of: MBZUAI, TUM, LUH

status = "active"                           # "active" or "alumni"

publications = [
    "VoigtNH25",                  # name of bib entry (must appear in webpage\bibliography.bib
    "ForouharSNH25",
    "TrobingerNSH25",
    "ForouharSNKH25",
    "ChenZCWNSH25",
    "PradoCESRNHS25",
    "NertingerKNH24",
    "ChenYNSH24",
    "NertingerHMNH24",
    "Perez-SuayLSNH24",
    "EberleLYNFH24",
    "SkerljHENH24",
    "ChenNSHH24",
    "ForouharSPNH24",
    "BienNFH24",
    "ChenYZNSH24",
    "YangBNNH24",
    "HidalgoCarvajalCBJZBNLH23",
    "NertingerKANH23",
    "SkerljBWBBSNMHE23",
    "Hidalgo-Carvajal23",
    "HamadNKFNH23",
    "BienSTETSFSNH23",
    "NertingerDENHH23",
    "ChenSCTSNH23",
    "TrobingerNCSH23",
    "GrossHBSGNH23",
    "ToedtheideCSNH23",
    "VoigtNH23",
    "MuchachoBLNFH23",
    "AdamEPIVDBSNSAHB23",
    "HerzogNWNHB23",
    "NertingerNH23",
    "ElsnerRFNWH22",
    "Hidalgo-Carvajal22",
    "NaceriETSJVCMJB22",
    "TrobingerCXEHNF21"
] 
+++


## Biography
Dr. Abdeldjallil Naceri is a Senior Scientist at the Munich Institute of Robotics and Machine Intelligence, Technical University of Munich. 
Dr. Naceri received his Ph.D. in Robotics from the University of Genoa in collaboration with the Italian Institute of Technology, Italy. 
Dr. Naceri gained research experience in robotics grasping, teleoperation, and virtual reality during his career at Bielefeld University (departments of Cognitive Neuroscience and Neuroinformatics) and at the Italian Institute of Technology (Advanced Robotics Department). 
The main research interests of Dr. Naceri are: Telerobotics, Grasping and Manipulation, Digital Twins, Service Humanoid, and Human-Robot Interaction.


## Research Interests
- Human and robot hands
- Grasping and manipulation
- Impedance control and learning during grasping and manipulation
- Telerobitcs & Digital Twins
- Assistive Robotics



## Contact
- [LinkedIn](https://de.linkedin.com/in/anaceri)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=IBzbBbwAAAAJ)


## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated! Use publications = [] -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->