+++
title = "Dr. Fan Wu"
draft = false

image = "/images/team/FanWu.jpg"  # webpage/image/team/ ....

role_first_line = "Prof. at Shanghai University"        # Visible subtitle
role_second_line = "(former Postdoc @ TUM)"                       # Visible subtitle
role_group = ["Postdoc"]                    # One of: PhD, Postdoc, MSc, BSc, Staff, Visiting, Alumni, Collaborator
affiliation = ["TUM"]      # One of: MBZUAI, TUM, LUH

status = "alumni"                           # "active" or "alumni"

publications = [
    "ZhangLBWHK25",                  # name of bib entry (must appear in webpage\bibliography.bib
    "ZhangWCBWWHK25",
    "ZhangCZBWWHK25",
    "AoWWSH25",
    "WuCWCZBSHK25",
    "ChenSZCWBHK25",
    "ZhangWCBMWHK25",
    "SoSWCAH24",
    "KaracanKSWH24",
    "0005BWWZHK24",
    "WuWC0SJBAKH24",
    "KaracanZS0H24",
    "ZhangB0CCZWKYHK24",
    "SchneiderWJWH24",
    "ZhaoVAWZHHB0KHV24",
    "ZhangBZCCWHK24",
    "FrotzscherCTGSWDWRH23",
    "KaracanKSWH23",
    "JensenMPOWLMHBH23",
    "0005BWMKHK23",
    "OssadnikYWSKAH22",
    "ChenJSSDNWFH22"
] 
+++

*(image credit: [Personal webpage](https://frankiewoo.github.io/))*


## Biography
Since September 2025, I have joined Shanghai University as an associate professor.

I was a research scientist (postdoc) at Munich Institute of Robotics and Machine Intelligence (MIRMI) and the Chair of Robotics and Systems Intelligence (RSI) with Prof. Sami Haddadin. 
Before joining MIRMI as a PostDoc, I did my PhD at King’s College London, where I focused on energy efficient compliant actuation. 
Prior to that, I studied Applied Mathematics and worked as a quantitative trader in stock and futures market. 
I have been a fan of many Sci-Fi works featuring futuristic robot technologies, from giant robots (like Gundam and Pacific Rim) to cyborgs (eg Ghost in the Shell), so I decided to participate in the exiciting journey towards making great robots.

My research interests include robot skill learning, behavior trees, foundation models for robotics, robotic system architecture, and causality-aware autonomous decision making. 
My current focus is on robot skills development, acquisition and learning. 
I am leading a team working on large-scale collective robot learning and explore robot skill learning by leveraging scaling in physical robot experiments.

On the practical side, my goal is to build a robot skills and behavior coordination system that can be deployed in real flexible manufacturing use cases. 
Moreover, my dream is to make robots achieve human-level performance in tool-use and craftsmanship. 
On the theorectical side, I want to understand how intelligent species conceptualize the world and build their decision making system based on fundamental conpects about objects, actions and causes-and-effects.

*(source: [Personal webpage](https://frankiewoo.github.io/))*


## Research Interests
- optimal control and reinforcement learning
- optimal control for energy efficient elastic robots
- compliant actuation
- machine learning for embodied systems
- energy-aware policy learning
- collective learning

*(source: [RSI webpage](https://www.ce.cit.tum.de/rsi/team/wu-fan/))*

## Contact
- [Personal webpage](https://frankiewoo.github.io/)
- [LinkedIn](https://de.linkedin.com/in/fan-wu-a4929959)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/FrankieWOO)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ISnHunsAAAAJ)


## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated! Use publications = [] -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->