+++
title = "Dr.-Ing. Lars Johannsmeier"
draft = false

image = "/images/team/LarsJohannsmeier.jpg"

role_first_line = "PhD Student @ TUM"
role_second_line = "(now at NVIDIA)"
role_group = ["PhD"]
affiliation = ["TUM"]

status = "alumni"

publications = [
    "WuWC0SJBAKH24",
    "SchneiderWJWH24",
    "RingwaldSCKJSH23",
    "NaceriETSJVCMJB22",
    "HaddadinPJGGWSJ22",
    "ChenJSSDNWFH22",
    "JohannsmeierH22",
    "abs-2210-10015",
    "ShahriariJJH20",
    "VoigtJH20",
    "HaddadinJL19",
    "JohannsmeierGH19",
    "GrischkeJEH19",
    "KuehnRSJH19",
    "ShahriariJH18",
    "HaddadinJBSLHSE18",
    "GrassmannJH18",
    "HaddadinJ18",
    "HaddadinJSEPHSL18",
    "abs-1805-08576",
    "JohannsmeierH17"
]
+++


## Thesis

*Towards Autonomous Policy Synthesis: Tactile Manipulation Skills, Learning Architecture, and Process-Taxonomy-Based Planning*


## Biography

I am a research scientist at the Seattle Robotics Lab. 
I obtained my PhD from the Technical University Munich under the supervision of Prof. Sami Haddadin. 
Before joining NVIDIA, I was the head of the AI department at Franka Robotics GmbH, the creator of the most popular research robot worldwide. 
My research at NVIDIA focuses on two main aspects. 
First, how to design intelligent robotic systems such that they are deployable in the real world. 
Second, how to model manipulation such that robots can solve complex tasks with similar performance and robustness as humans.

## Research Interests
- Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
- Robotics


## Contact
- [LinkedIn](https://de.linkedin.com/in/lars-johannsmeier-575940181)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-Wf923oAAAAJ)
- [NVIDIA](https://research.nvidia.com/person/lars-johannsmeier)
- [ORCID](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4599-7636)


## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->