+++
title = "Mehmet Can Yildirim"
role = "PhD Student @ TUM"                            # Visible subtitle
role_group = "PhD"                      # One of: PhD, Postdoc, MSc, BSc, Staff, Visiting, Alumni, Collaborator
image = "/images/team/ErikaMustermann.jpg"  # webpage/image/team/ ....
status = "active"                           # "active" or "alumni"
publications = [
    "YildirimFORSSMH25",                   # name of bib entry (must appear in webpage\bibliography.bib
    "YildirimCRKMH25",
    "RakcevicOFYMH25",
    "OssadnikRYFKSH24",
    "KuhnYFKSH24",
    "FortunicYOSAH23",
    "YildirimPHMSH23",
    "YildirimSGKJSSH22",
    "OssadnikYWSKAH22"
] 
+++


Hello, my name is Mehmet Can YILDIRIM. 
I’m a mechanical engineer who primarily designs, builds, and develops hardware for robots. 
On this small website, you can reach my professional accounts, as well as you can check my published work. 

I’m currently a Research Associate at the Chair of Robotics and System Intelligence at the Technical University of Munich. 
Also, I'm currently serving as the Manager of the Mechatronics Assembly, Integration, and Testing Laboratory of the Munich Institute of Robotics and Machine Intelligence.

## Short Bio

I was born in Merzifon/Turkey in 1993. 
I attended Inanc High School in 2007, where I founded a robotics club with my four classmates, IMC. 
So, with that, my journey started. In 2016, as a freshman undergrad, I started to work at Ozyegin University Robotics Lab., in this lab, I participated in two different medical robotics projects. 
After I graduated, I became a part of Ozyegin University Biomechatronics Lab. with the research project titled “Development and Control of Upper Body Exoskeleton Robot with High Torque Gained Series Elastic Actuator” in which I worked on the designs of actuation units, passive elements, and the exoskeleton. 
My experience with this project led me to consider the issues surrounding the repetitive use of robots and the emerging topic of soft components. 
I worked on similar units and elements for another project titled “Development of Series Elastic Actuated Self-Balancing Lower Body Exoskeleton for 3D Walking Support.” 
The core elements of this project eventually became the body of my MSc thesis. 
In February 2019, I got my MSc degree.


## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated! Use publications = [] -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->