+++
title = "Dr. Melissa Zavaglia"
draft = false

image = "/images/team/MelissaZavaglia.jpg"  # webpage/image/team/ ....

role_first_line = "Senior Scientist @ TUM"        # Visible subtitle
role_second_line = ""                       # Visible subtitle
role_group = ["Postdoc"]                    # One of: PhD, Postdoc, MSc, BSc, Staff, Visiting, Alumni, Collaborator
affiliation = ["TUM"]      # One of: MBZUAI, TUM, LUH

status = "active"                           # "active" or "alumni"

publications = [
    "XygonakisSHSSKMCZH24",                  # name of bib entry (must appear in webpage\bibliography.bib
    "HidalgoCarvajalCBJZBNLH23",
    "Dimova-EdelevaR23",
    "XygonakisZH23"
] 
+++


## Biography
I am a biomedical engineer with PhD in computational neuroscience and strong experience (10+ years) in neural modelling and medical data.

My scientific production presently includes more than 50 publications (among them 25 on international journals and 3 on international books). 
Furthermore, I am active as speaker in international scientific events and as reviewer for journals and books.

My research activity is focused on simulation of brain functions by neural networks. 
I performed research studies on the assessment of cortical connectivity among different brain areas during cognitive or motor tasks using neural mass models. 
I worked on neural network models for the study of the multisensory representation of peripersonal space and on networks of spiking neurons for the study of cerebral activity during a word recognition task. 

In the last 10 years I worked on brain lesion analysis with game theory approach.


## Contact
- [LinkedIn](https://de.linkedin.com/in/melissa-zavaglia-12065323)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=LoT16AsAAAAJ)
- [ORCID](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4071-8901)


## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated! Use publications = [] -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->