+++
title = "Sascha Schwarz"
draft = false

image = "/images/team/SaschaSchwarz.jpg"  # webpage/image/team/ ....

role_first_line = "CTO at TUM Venture Labs"        # Visible subtitle
role_second_line = "(former Postdoc @ TUM)"                       # Visible subtitle
role_group = ["Postdoc"]                    # One of: PhD, Postdoc, MSc, BSc, Staff, Visiting, Alumni, Collaborator
affiliation = ["TUM"]      # One of: MBZUAI, TUM, LUH

status = "alumni"                           # "active" or "alumni"

publications = [
    "abs-2110-09904"
] 
+++

*(image credit: [Bayern Innovativ](https://www.bayern-innovativ.de/showcontact/detail/sascha-schwarz/))*



## About
Building and scaling innovation systems that turn DeepTech into real business impact: empowering the next generation of founders.

Across different roles, a consistent focus has been on building and scaling innovation systems and organizations that translate advanced technologies into scalable ventures and meaningful applications.

As CTO of TUM Venture Labs, driving the development of Europe’s leading innovation ecosystems for DeepTech startups, mobilizing critical infrastructure and enabling a seamless lab-to-market journey. 
As Managing Director, I build and scale one of the leading entrepreneurial hubs for Additive and Advanced Manufacturing, empowering researchers, founders, and organizations to transform advanced technologies into impactful businesses and real-world applications.

Grounded in Effective Leadership and Strategy: empowering people, building resilient and scalable organizations, and enabling innovation to create lasting impact in complex environments.

Combining experience as a founder, scientist, research group leader, and consultant, with a deep understanding of both the opportunities and challenges of turning science into scalable businesses. 
This enables bridging research, technology, and practical implementation, particularly in interdisciplinary and high-complexity environments.

Close collaboration with startups, corporates, investors, and public institutions to shape ecosystems that accelerate innovation and create long-term impact.

Strong interest in the convergence of biology and technology: exploring how principles from natural systems can be translated into next-generation industrial and technological solutions.

Driven by building resilient and effective organizations that enable innovation to scale and deliver long-term business value.

*(source: [LinkedIn](https://de.linkedin.com/in/schwarzsascha))*



## Contact
- [LinkedIn](https://de.linkedin.com/in/schwarzsascha)
- [UTM Venture Labs](https://www.tum-venture-labs.de/about/)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=_hS_cAQAAAAJ)



## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated! Use publications = [] -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->