+++
title = "Bram Vanderborght"
draft = false

image = "/images/team/BramVanderborght.jpg"

role_first_line = "Vrije Universiteit Brussel"
role_second_line = ""
role_group = ["Collaborator"]
affiliation = []

publications = [
    "VanderborghtABBCCCEFGGGGHHJLLPSTDHVa13",
    "VanderborghtABBCCCGGGGHJLLPSTDHVW12"
]
+++

*(image credit: [Vrije Universiteit Brussel](https://mech.vub.ac.be/multibody/members/bram.htm))*


## About
Prof. dr. ir. Bram Vanderborght was born in Belgium in 1980. 
I received the degree in the study of Mechanical Engineering at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel in 2003 with highest distinction. 
Since 2003 I was researcher at the VUB, supported by the Fund for Scientific Research Flanders (FWO).
In May 2007 I received my PhD in Applied Sciences. 
The focus of my research was the use of adaptable compliance of pneumatic artificial muscles in the dynamically balanced biped Lucy. 
In May-June 2006 I performed research on the humanoids robot HRP-2 at the Joint Japanese/French Robotics Laboratory (JRL) in AIST, Tsukuba (Japan) in the research "Dynamically stepping over large obstacles by the humanoid robot HRP-2". 
I received a 3-year post-doc grant with mobility grant from the FWO. 
From October 2007-April 2010 I worked as post-doc researcher at the Italian Institute of Technology in Genova (Italy) on the humanoid robot iCub and compliant actuation.
Since October 2009, I am appointed as professor at the VUB where I teach mechatronics and give a robotics project. From October 2011-Sept 2016, I was research director at the Universitatea Babes-Bolyai, Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy with a project on robot assisted therapy with ASD children and VUB-PI of the DREAM project. 
I received an ERC Starting Grant on Series-Parallel Elastic Actuation for Robotics (SPEAR). 
I was a member of the Young Academy of the Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts.

I coordinated EU FET SHERO project and Marie Curie ITN SMART project and EIC Transition SHINTO. 
I am VUB-PI of EU project SOPHIA and EU project EURobin.

I was till 2020 the core lab manager of Flanders Make in Flexible Assembly, now I am affiliated to the Interuniversity Microelectronics Institute (imec), Belgium, as scientific collaborator. 
I am also member of Brubotics , the mulitdisciplinary research enter on Human robot interaction. 
I also co-lead the Homo Roboticus project on how to keep the human values central in a robotised world.

I was till 2020 the Editor In Chief of IEEE Robotics and Automation Magazine, from 2022-2023 I was Vice President - Media Services Board and from 2024-2025 Vice President-Publication Activities Board of IEEE-RAS. 
From 2026 I am co-EIC of IEEE RA-Practices journal.

My research interests include the use of soft and self healing actuators for cognitive and physical human robot interaction in applications in health and manufacturing. 
Our work is on display in the AI Experience Center . 

*(source: [Vrije Universiteit Brussel](https://mech.vub.ac.be/multibody/members/bram.htm))*



## Research Interests
- human robot interaction for health and manufacturing

*(source: [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=de&user=gUz3d1sAAAAJ))*



## Contact
- [LinkedIn](https://be.linkedin.com/in/bram-vanderborght-259566390)
- [Vrije Universiteit Brussel](https://mech.vub.ac.be/multibody/members/bram.htm)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=de&user=gUz3d1sAAAAJ)
- [ORCID](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4881-9341)



## Selected Publications
<!-- Selected Publications are autogenerated! Use publications = [] -->
<!-- Keep ##Selected Publications !!! -->
<!-- You can add your own selected paper right after this part !!! -->